---
layout: post
title: Finding Different Limits
comments: on
---
As part of preparing for my half-marathon in October I have started to experiment with different equipment load outs and also a new training regimen. I initially attempted to follow the training guide in the Nike Run app that Nike made for the iPhone but found this app inadequate for day to day use compared to the built in Apple app. However, the training plan option is one I am following for general training without using their app.

The trick to the Nike training is that you are doing different runs and resting during the week before doing a long run over the weekend. Even though I am training for a half marathon I do not run a half marathon every single day. Some days are focused on increasing my comfort with running at higher speeds. Some days are focused on increasing my comfort with longer distances. And some days are simply rest days. Ultimately to go farther and faster you focus on a single variable and work your way up on that one thing. You see how it feels and what you can do. Then you later combine them.

I am also switching my equipment. When running long distances comfort is paramount. Over the weekend I replaced the shoes that I have worn out and beaten up over the past year. I got a new insert to deal with my flat feet. A new armband is more snug and comfortable than the cheap one I previously procured. After the wire to my earbuds got in my way too many times I decided to get a new pair of wireless earbuds. I do not know if any of these changes will work for me but the only way to find out is to experiment with them.